'\" -*- coding: us-ascii -*-
.if \n(.g .ds T< \\FC
.if \n(.g .ds T> \\F[\n[.fam]]
.de URL
\\$2 \(la\\$1\(ra\\$3
..
.if \n(.g .mso www.tmac
.TH cverules 1 "1 December 2010" "November 25, 2010" "cverules Manual"
.SH NAME
cverules \- Generate version matching rules for installed software on a Linux / Unix distribution
.SH SYNOPSIS
'nh
.fi
.ad l
\fBcverules -r\fR \kx
.if (\nx>(\n(.l/2)) .nr x (\n(.l/5)
'in \n(.iu+\nxu
'in \n(.iu-\nxu
.ad b
'hy
.SH DESCRIPTION
The cverules script will scan the installed distribution packages
on your system and attempt to generate version matching rules that can be
used by cvechecker.
.PP
The script should be used by people interested in contributing to
the cvechecker' success.
.SH USAGE
.SS "COMMAND USAGE"
The command requires a single option, -r. An example usage pattern
is like so:
.PP
.nf
\*(T<~$ cverules \-r > output.txt\*(T>
.fi
.PP
The generated \*(T<\fIoutput.txt\fR\*(T> file can then be
submitted to the cvechecker project, allowing it to improve the
versions.dat.
.SS USABILITY
The user should understand that this script attempts to generate
matches, but doesn't guarantee that each and every installed software is
detected.
.PP
First of all, if a package is already matched by existing rules,
the rest of the package' content isn't scanned anymore. This is because
the tool wants to identify software and versions - once one has been
detected, further detection is less useful and very resource
consuming.
.PP
Second, if a package isn't detected properly, the script will see
if the version based on the distributions' package version can be found.
If it can't, then it cannot identify the version properly and ignores
the package.
.PP
Third, if the script does find a match for the version, it tries
out a few regular expressions (which have a high probability rate to
match the version) but has no intelligence to optimize the expressions.
If the tried expressions fail, the script will ignore the
package.
.SH AUTHOR
cverules is part of the cvechecker tool. cverules was
written by Sven Vermeulen <sven.vermeulen@siphos.be>.
