'\" -*- coding: us-ascii -*-
.if \n(.g .ds T< \\FC
.if \n(.g .ds T> \\F[\n[.fam]]
.de URL
\\$2 \(la\\$1\(ra\\$3
..
.if \n(.g .mso www.tmac
.TH pullcves 1 "17 August 2013" "August 17, 2013" "pullcves Manual"
.SH NAME
pullcves \- Update the local cvechecker CVE database and version matching rules
.SH SYNOPSIS
'nh
.fi
.ad l
\fBpullcves pull\fR \kx
.if (\nx>(\n(.l/2)) .nr x (\n(.l/5)
'in \n(.iu+\nxu
'in \n(.iu-\nxu
.ad b
'hy
or
'nh
.fi
.ad l
\fBpullcves cleancache\fR \kx
.if (\nx>(\n(.l/2)) .nr x (\n(.l/5)
'in \n(.iu+\nxu
'in \n(.iu-\nxu
.ad b
'hy
.SH DESCRIPTION
The pullcves script will download the CVE entries from the Internet
and store them in the local cvechecker databases. It will also download
the latest version matching rules from the Internet and load them up in
the cvechecker database. It uses the \fBwget\fR tool for the
downloads and \fBxsltproc\fR for the XML conversions.
.PP
If \fBcleancache\fR is used, it will clean its internal
cache. This will effectively remove the downloaded XML (and generated CSV)
files, causing the next \fBpull\fR to redownload and reimport
everything.
.PP
The pullcves script uses the configuration file of cvechecker for
the paths of the various locations using the same logic (if
CVECHECKER_CONFFILE is set as environment variable, then it has to point
to a valid configuration file; if the environment variable is not set, it
ties ~/.cvechecker.rc, /usr/local/etc/cvechecker.conf and
/etc/cvechecker.conf in that order).
.SH USAGE
The command is simply \fBpullcves pull\fR or
\fBpullcves cleancache\fR.
.SS "RETURN CODES"
The returncode of pullcves depends on the actions it
performed.
.PP
In case of \fBpull\fR:
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
A returncode of 0 means that the CVE database and version
matching rules were already up to date
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
A returncode of 1 means that the CVE database is
updated
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
A returncode of 2 means that the version matching rules are
updated
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
A returncode of 3 means that both the CVE database and version
matching rules are updated
.SH AUTHOR
pullcves is part of the cvechecker tool. pullcves was written by
Sven Vermeulen <sven.vermeulen@siphos.be>.
